College:SRM College of Management

About college:SRM College of Management, a premier B-School in India, is committed to offering industry-relevant programs, and aspires to solve business and societal problems through its academic rigour, pedagogical excellence, research, consulting, and innovative and collaborative practices.

The academic programs of SRM CoM include live data, use cases, business simulations, case studies, research reviews and many more; that are supported by the best of academic infrastructures like FINTECH Lab, Ideation Cell, AI and Business Analytics Center, and Social Entrepreneurship cell. The Fintech lab is powered by high-end software like Thomson Reuters Eikon, CMIE Prowess IQ, CRISIL Research Database, Spider Software and Traders Cockpit Software which makes learning truly engaging.

Further, SRM CoM offers a unique opportunity to be mentored by Chief Executive Officers of Multi-crore companies under the CXO Protégé Program. Over 150+ companies are our regular recruitment partners.

Strong International collaborations of SRM CoM help our students pursue Foreign Internships, Semester abroad programs, Research and secure International placements. These International exposures attune our students gain global outlook to astutely face the challenging dynamics in the complex business environment.

Courses Offered:
BBA:
Annual Fees:INR 1,05,000
Duration:3 Years
BBA is a three-year program in business administration. It is a much-sought after program that provides a holistic learning experience. It provides knowledge and experiential learning to carve out managers, entrepreneurs and business leaders. Around the year learning experience through workshops, co- curricular and extra-curricular activities makes the program very intensive. The students gain knowledge about the functioning of various domains of business like HR, Finance, Marketing and Systems and learn to apply those concepts to provide the appropriate solutions for the challenges faced by businesses.

BBA(Honours):
Annual Fees:INR 1,30,000
Duration:3 Years
BBA (Honours)
BBA (Honours) is a three-year program for those aspiring for an intensive career in management. The programs provide academic and industrial exposure, making them industry-ready. In a nutshell, BBA Honours resonates with an academic rigour and various industrial practices. The curriculum of the course is designed to impart industry-specific knowledge as well as academic know-how to the students. It also allows the candidates to excel in one specialized area enabling them to manage, start and grow new or existing business. It offers specializations in marketing, finance, human resources and operations management. One month internship in the field of their interest adds to their domain knowledge and enhances the employability of these students.

BBA Digital Marketing:
Annual Fees:105,000
Duration:3 Years
BBA in Digital Marketing is a three-year program is designed to create technology driven managers, leaders and entrepreneurs to handle the contemporary and dynamic changes of businesses. This program provides an opportunity to learn subjects related with business administration with industrial exposure specifically in the field of digital marketing.