College:Department of Biomedical Engineering

About The Department:

SRMIST is one of the few institutions in India that offers a B.Tech., M. Tech., and PhD programme in Biomedical Engineering that has been in existence for more than 15 years. Biomedical engineering is a consortium of biologists and engineers collaborating to develop medical devices, healthcare technologies, and services that benefit humanity. Biomedical engineering at SRM, was established in 2004 with an active clinical partnership with SRM Medical College and Research Institute. The department, since its inception, has actively participated in diversified research and teaching and has grown to become one of the best institutions in the country for the program. The department is well equipped with state-of-the-art research laboratories in the areas of Bioimaging, Biomaterials, Biomechanics, Bio signal and Medical Image processing. Students are motivated for active industrial collaboration through the industry associated “Centre for Biomedical Research and Healthcare Innovation (CBRHI)”. Our students have taken a few courses or completed projects at any one of our partner institutions abroad (Harvard, NTU, etc.), under the Semester Abroad Program (SAP). Connecting past to present, our students are placed in Top MNCs, Biomedical Industries, Government and Private Hospitals, IT Industries, and Research laboratories.

Vision:

Implement Science and Engineering principles in the broad area of Medical Instrumentation
Improve Healthcare delivery to humans in association with physicians and surgeons
Translate Biomedical Engineering research into applications that will advance and improve Healthcare.

Mission:

Built on a strong foundation of Basic Science and Engineering, the mission is to educate students in diverse fields of Biomedical Engineering

Work towards state-of-the-art Biomedical Engineering research and development through an interdisciplinary curriculum.

Apply knowledge about design in the development of enabling technologies for the improvement of human health.

Promote Biomedical Engineering research with ethics in the development of novel and innovative technologies.

Achieve academic excellence and stay research driven to match national and international standards.


Programs Offered:

B.Tech – Biomedical Engineering
Duration:4 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 2,50,000

M.Tech – Biomedical Engineering

Duration:2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,60,000


Department of Fashion Designing

About The Department:

Fashion Designing department has well equipped lab facilities. Pattern Making & Garment Construction lab, Illustration lab, Computer Aided Designing lab and Draping lab are all updated labs of the department. Pattern making lab is equipped with advanced power machines and over lock machines along with customized pattern table and sitting stools. The draping lab is furnished with body forms, female mannequins, male mannequins and kids mannequins. The illustration lab has customized table and chair for the students to make comfortable sketching. The computer aided designing lab has advanced designing software for the students to make computerized sketches. The department has been continuously organizing numerous guest lectures and seminars for the benefit of the students. Most of the guest speakers are from the Designing Industry. They are designers, stylist, and entrepreneurs. And also the department invites guest speakers from retailing industry and professors from various college. Recently the department organized a national level guest lecture. The guest speaker was Karun Raman, fashion choreographer, fashion blogger who is a familiar face and celebrity in the media and modeling industry. The department organized another national level guest lecture. The guest speaker for the event was Dr. C. Prakash, Director, IIHT, West Bengal. The department has organized few notable workshops in the past pertaining to Digital Designing, Doll Dress Making, Fashion Illustration, Metal Craft Work, Blazer Sewing and Finishing. 

Vision/Mission:

To provide rigorous standards for design knowledge, illustration skills, industrial and professional behaviour.

To contribute to a designer society through teaching (with classrooms, labs, fashion studios, designing through software and service.

To value a collaborative, collegial and cooperative teaching and learning community composed of diverse students.

Programs Offered:

UnderGraduate:

B.Sc. Fashion Designing
Duration : 3 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 65,000