College Name: Srm College of Agriculture and Science
SRMIST in support of the Government’s initiative towards doubling farmers income has set up this College of Agricultural and Horticulture Sciences

Undergraduate programme B.Sc. (Hons) Horticulture was introduced from 2018-19 academic year and B.Sc. (Hons) Agriculture is added from 2019-20. More UG, PG and Diploma programmes in other fields of agricultural sciences will be initiated in a phased manner.

The College of Agricultural Sciences (SRM-CAS) being established near Acharapakkam will be serving as a futuristic institution for higher education, research and extension in agriculture and allied sciences integrating Ecology, Food, Nutrition and Health.

SRM-CAS will strive to promote agriculture with healthy food production and healthy lives.


More about:


SRM-COLLEGE OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES comes under the umbrella of its parent institution, SRM Institute of Science and Technology. The UG programme B.Sc., (Hons) Horticulture was started from the academic year 2018-19 and B.Sc., (Hons) Agriculture was introduced from 2019-20. A new campus has been established in Vendhar Nagar, Baburayanpettai near Acharapakkam in about 187 acres of land and started functioning from March 2021. The total strength of students on the campus is 823, including 635 in Agriculture and 188 in Horticulture.

SRM-CAS provides the perfect learning environment with the main aim to educate and groom students into trained professional managers in the field of Agriculture and Horticulture. Several infrastructure facilities have been created towards Agricultural education. Adequate numbers of spacious classrooms with LCD Projectors & WiFi network, excellent computer facilities and departmental laboratories have been created in the SRM-College of Agricultural Sciences. Students can access high-speed internet connection at any time, no-matter wherever they are in the campus. Apart from this the institute has a good playground to encourage students to take part in sports, games and yoga activities. Fully equipped library with all latest subject related books and a main library with more than one lakh books. Conference hall with video conferencing facilities and audio – video (AV) laboratory to train students in spoken English and various skills essential for communication like listening, reading, speaking and writing through computer assisted language learning software. Students are also trained in various agriculture related software’s such as QGIS, GrassGIS, ILWIS, Map Window for applying the geographical information systems (GIS) in Agriculture.

A team of eminent qualified Ph.D. Degree holders, well qualified, experienced and dedicated, research minded, dynamic and committed Faculty and academic staff members in the relevant branches of Agriculture and Horticulture are available at SRM-CAS and this is the backbone for the institute. The college has excellent Faculty Student ratio.



Agriculture @ SRM - CAS

    Students Welfare Centre is established in the campus to guide students to get exposed towards skill oriented programmes. 
    Preliminary coaching will be given for various government examinations like UPSC, TNPSC, SSC, CDS and Banking. Besides, Memorandum of Understandings (MoUs) is being signed with MNCs to facilitate campus placement.
    SRM institute of science of Technology is having national recognition of A++ Grade given by NAAC. Among the deemed University, SRMIST is the only A++ Grade University to offer B.Sc., (Hons.) Agriculture and B.Sc., (Hons.) Horticulture in Tamil Nadu.
    Students are divided into 4 batches (maximum 70 students per batch) for theory classes and 7 batches (maximum 35 students per batch) for practical classes. This helps to concentrate on individual students.
    Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) is signed with international Universities to facilitate the semester abroad programme and collaboration in Agricultural education and research. The semester abroad programmes are the perfect way for students to balance their desire for international exploration with their commitment to making the most of campus life.
    SRM-CAS is the first Agricultural Institution in the Country to create a separate discipline “Agroecology


    
Salient Features

    Hi-tech Agriculture and Horticulture
    Precision Farming
    Micro-irrigation
    Remote sensing / GIS in Agriculture
    Sensor based Farming
    Urban Horticulture and Landscape Architecture
    Farm Mechanization
    Food Processing and Value Addition
    Agripreneurship Development
    Environmental Management
    Agroecology and Climate Smart Agriculture
    Organic Agriculture
    World Class Infrastructure Facilities
    Digital Modern Campus
    Well Qualified Professors



Amenities in the Campus

SRM College of Agricultural Sciences at Vendhar nagar, Baburayanpettai, Chengalpattu district is a residential Institute and provides on-campus accommodation to all students, faculty and staff. The institute has separate hostels of world class for Girls and Boys with boarding facilities and internet connectivity. The hostel rooms are furnished with a cot, a chair and a writing table and the hostels are provided with exclusive dining facility. The food menu in the hostel is decided by an elected student body. A reading room, recreation hall, indoor sports facility, dispensary, washing machine at each floor, CCTV for safety, RO water purifier is also available in the hostel. The campus has shopping centres catering to the needs of the Students, Faculty and Staff. The shopping centre in the hostel zone hosts a Xerox shop, a stationery shop, and a bookstore. Separate outlet is available to sell farm products to inmates and outsiders. All residences offer personal and academic support to help student adjust to living away from home.

dean: image link:https://d23qowwaqkh3fj.cloudfront.net/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Dr.-Jawaharlal-M.jpg

Dr. M. Jawaharlal

P: +91 – 44 22741 7550
E: dean.agri@srmist.edu.in
Dean's Welcome Message

The overall mission of the College of Agricultural and Horticultural Sciences is to provide knowledge and support for teaching, conducting research and capacity-building on the principles and practices for climate-smart, sustainable agriculture to produce healthy food with higher factor productivity and livelihood security. It is with a sense of commitment that our Founder & Chancellor Dr. T R Paarivedhar has personally seen to it that we empower and benefit farm community and food sector at large through extension research, pedagogy that engages students and researchers with on-field experience and lab facilities par excellence to generate pathbreaking interventions.


department in Agriculture and science college:

Departments
Department of Fruit science(Horticulture)
Department of Vegetable Science(Horticulture)
Department of Floriculture and Landscaping(Horticulture)
Department of Spice and Plantation crops(Horticulture)
Department of Post Harvest and Technology(Horticulture)
Urban Horticultural Farm(Horticulture)
Department of Natural Resource Management(Agriculture)
Department of Crop Management(Agriculture)
Department of Crop Protection(Agriculture)
Department of Crop Improvement(Agriculture)
Department of Social Sciences(Agriculture)
Department of Basic Science and Humanity


Programs Offered:

The programme is well structured as it emphasizes on sound foundation of basic concepts in Agriculture and Horticulture. The curricula and syllabi for the two UG programmes have been formulated based on the guidelines of the Fifth Dean’s Committee Report (2017) of Indian Council of Agricultural Research. The entire B.Sc. (Hons.) Programme of study will consist of career streams distributed over eight semesters with two semesters per year viz., Compulsory Core; Supportive Course, Allied; Extension Activity; Supplementary Course; Student READY and Elective course. Field demonstrations and practical’s are conducted in the central farm of SRM-CAS. In addition the institute encourages students exchange programmes within India and abroad through semester abroad programme. To Study rural situation, institutions, organizations, beliefs and value system, cropping pattern, communication pattern, extent of adoption of latest technologies and constrains, students of Agriculture and Horticulture would be placed in a village for 60 days. To understand the organizational structure of State of Department of Agriculture/Horticulture, students will be attached with ADA/ADH office. In addition to this, Industrial attachment is also done to understand various industries related to Agriculture and Horticulture.



Future focus
Agroecology

Agroecology is an integrated approach that simultaneously applies ecological and social concepts and principles to the design and management of food and agricultural systems. It seeks to optimize the interactions between plants, animals, humans and the environment while taking into consideration the social aspects that need to be addressed for a sustainable and fair food system. More recently, agroecology has entered the discourse of international and UN institutions. Realizing the importance of the subject SRMIST has included agroecology in the curriculum of the UG programmes in Agriculture and Horticulture. A new course “Introduction to Agroecology” has been introduced for both horticulture and agriculture programmes for the first time in India.


Crop Health:

A new division of Crop Health is being introduced wherein, the following subjects are brought under: Plant Biochemistry, Crop Physiology, Agricultural Entomology, Plant Pathology, Soil Fertility and Weed Management which are related to the well-being and growth of the crops.


2018
Estabilished
50 +
Faculties
20 +
Field Visits per Year
100 +
Farm Communities Engaged
Infrastructure & Facilities

SRM Institute of Science and Technology has been consistent to maintain excellence in the academic standard since its inception. Learning is an Enjoyable experience here, with experienced Faculty, Inspiring Libraries and Stimulating discussion rooms, Large Playgrounds and State-of-the-art Labs.  


Infrastructure & Facilities

SRM Institute of Science and Technology has been consistent to maintain excellence in the academic standard since its inception. Learning is an Enjoyable experience here, with experienced Faculty, Inspiring Libraries and Stimulating discussion rooms, Large Playgrounds and State-of-the-art Labs.  


Vibrant Activities and Opportunities

There’s never a dull moment on campus, as the activities on offer are as diverse and varied too – from entertainment to extra-curricular or even religious pursuits. There are several activities to keep students busy, in their various areas of interest. It’s a stimulating environment for living and learning, with cultural activities, sports, fine arts and entrepreneurship, encouraging students to venture beyond the realms of academics.

	
Student Care and Nobel Causes:

College/ University campus is a place to find valuable friendship and to cherish unforgettable moments. We, here at SRM strongly condemn any kind of ragging practices. Our students welcome the freshers with flowers and advices and they do not believe in violence or unhealthy practices. Our faculty members impart good values with education and that is what set SRM apart.


Address:

SRM Nagar, Kattankulathur - 603 203
Chengalpattu District, Tamil Nadu.
Call us at

T: +91-44- 27417000, +91-44-27417777
Information Center

M: 080 6908 7000 | E: infodesk@srmist.edu.in


pranav k

Department of Chemical Engineering
The Department of Chemical Engineering was started in the year 1995, offering a B.Tech. Degree program as part of SRM Engineering College under the then University of Madras. Since the academic year 2002, the department has been offering the M.Tech. (Chemical Engineering) program, and since the academic year 2003-2004, the department has been functioning under the SRM Institute of Science & Technology and, since then, has been offering undergraduate (B.Tech), postgraduate (M.Tech), and doctoral (Ph.D.) programs in Chemical Engineering. The department has highly qualified faculty with experience in research and industry from prestigious institutions such as IITs, IISc, BARC and foreign universities and has close interactions with national research institutes such as IIT Madras, NIOT Chennai, NIT Trichy, IGCAR Kalpakkam and nearby private industries. The faculty are engaged in research projects, socially relevant and useful to the industries.

The students who graduated from the Chemical Engineering department are spread across the country and globe, pursuing professional careers in a wide range of areas, including energy, water, refineries, pharmaceuticals, other manufacturing sectors, IT-enabled sectors, and as entrepreneurs. The department constantly updates the curriculum to keep pace with the developments across multiple disciplines, such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and the internet of things. Realizing the importance of cross-disciplinary knowledge, students are trained in the integration of core chemical engineering concepts with new software tools and sophisticated instrumentation, preparing them for promising career prospects in industries and organizations involved in design, production, research and development, and consultancy in chemical, environmental, biotechnological, petroleum, and several allied areas.

B.Tech – Chemical Engineering
Duration : 4 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 2,50,000 | Intake : 60

Program Educational Objectives
PEO1
To prepare and facilitate graduating students for job opportunities related to production and research in process industries.
PEO2
To train undergraduate students with skill-sets and tools necessary for pursuing higher education in Chemical engineering and allied areas.
PEO3
To empower students to become entrepreneurs for chemical and allied industries.
PEO4
To enable students to strive towards Sustainable development.

M.Tech – Chemical Engineering
Duration : 2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,60,000

Program Educational Objectives
PEO 1
To impart a significantly higher level of technical knowledge than in undergraduate so that they appreciate the technological aspects of Chemical Engineering and create opportunities in advanced topics of the field of study.
PEO 2
To prepare students with skill sets and values that meets the varied needs of industries, research and academic organizations.
PEO 3
To enhance their capabilities in experimental research works, analytical skills, interpretation of scientific data and converting these into technical reports.
PEO 4
To enable the graduates to create and work in an atmosphere where learning, research and technical competence co-exists.
PEO 5
To train them for coexistence with inter-disciplinary groups in industry, academic and research organizations.

Placement
Chemical engineering offers diverse career options in various areas, including chemical processing, environmental management, food and beverage manufacture, minerals and mining, oil and gas refining, petrochemicals, and pharmaceuticals. Freshly graduated Chemical Engineers can look at job prospects in these sectors and industries. Apart from being part of traditional industries such as the petroleum industry and bulk chemical production, chemical engineering is also fast becoming part of new and upcoming fields such as machine learning, process optimization, information technology, alternative energy, and pollution control technology. Their contribution is vital in industrial processes across a broad spectrum, from manufacturing fibers, paints, fabrics, medical drugs, biomaterials, gasoline, and lubricants, among others necessary for the sector’s proper functioning.

They have vast opportunities as a beginner in government and privately-owned organizations alike. Chemical Engineers can also pursue research careers in R & D units, design companies, and technical institutes/universities. They can also join post-graduate programs in Indian or foreign universities of repute after clearing examinations and start promising careers after that.

Infrastructure
Mass Transfer Lab
Mechanical Operations and Heat Transfer Lab
Chemical Reaction Engineering Laboratory and Process Control lab
Technical and Instrumentation analysis Lab
Process Modelling and Simulation Lab


Department Of Chemical Engineering
Chemical Engineering Building, SRM Institute of Science and Technology,
Kattankulathur – 603203

044 27417818/044 27417858
hod.chem.ktr@srmist.edu.in

M.B.A. Banking And Financial Services
The program MBA Banking and Financial Services is designed to provide students a broad overview of the key concepts, tools and techniques needed to successfully meet the challenges of today’s dynamic banking environment. It covers essential courses in the field of banking along with the current and future needs of the banking industry. Domain specific courses give students the much-needed business acumen to work cross-functionally within the organization and become more skilled in the basics of bank management. This program will equip students with exposure to mid-level and senior executive responsibilities with value addition of legal aspects, statistical tools & risk management techniques in banks. The course modules have been updated to cover the potential disruptions and the managerial challenges ahead in the banking Industry. The Banking and Financial Services program has been built from the ground up ensuring that the content throughout is not only relevant to the industry but also directly addressing the needs of its employers. The students can explore banking fundamentals, foreign exchange, consumer & mortgage credit, and investments to develop a thorough understanding of the banking and financial industries. Alongside a working knowledge of the field, it will also build a solid foundation of long-term employable skills. The technical and management skills offered in this program can be applied not only to banking establishments and credit companies, they can also be transferred into any position that requires communication skills and interaction with clients and customers. The programme is designed to groom future managers who can successfully handle complex business issues. In the changed global scenario, innovation is a major driving force for achieving competitive advantage through creation of new business opportunities. To meet this challenge there is a huge requirement of trained banking and financial professionals in the country. This program aims to churn out skilled and talented Finance and Management professionals to fulfil the requirement of the corporate sector in general and Banking, Insurance and Financial Services sector in particular. This rigorous training would enable them to be industry-ready.

Campus
Kattankulathur (KTR)
Sanctioned Intake
30
Annual Fees
INR 3,85,000
Duration
2 Years

Program Educational Objectives
PEO 1
Be critical thinkers and business thought leaders
PEO 2
Collaborate to innovate and enterprise with diverse multi-cultural teams
PEO 3
Make Responsible Decisions that positively impact all Stakeholders
PEO 4
Nurture personal growth and career success

Program Specific Outcomes
Ability to Acquire and apply wider Knowledge on Banking and Financial Services.
Develop managerial and technical skills to manage modern banking and financial Industry.
Build capacity to manage changing role of financial services, driving the strategy as per stakeholder priorities as well as a values and norms by effective communication

+91 44 27417000
+91 44 27417777
+080 69087000
infodesk@srmist.edu.in

Amirabdhulla:

College:SRM College of Management

About college:SRM College of Management, a premier B-School in India, is committed to offering industry-relevant programs, and aspires to solve business and societal problems through its academic rigour, pedagogical excellence, research, consulting, and innovative and collaborative practices.

The academic programs of SRM CoM include live data, use cases, business simulations, case studies, research reviews and many more; that are supported by the best of academic infrastructures like FINTECH Lab, Ideation Cell, AI and Business Analytics Center, and Social Entrepreneurship cell. The Fintech lab is powered by high-end software like Thomson Reuters Eikon, CMIE Prowess IQ, CRISIL Research Database, Spider Software and Traders Cockpit Software which makes learning truly engaging.

Further, SRM CoM offers a unique opportunity to be mentored by Chief Executive Officers of Multi-crore companies under the CXO Protégé Program. Over 150+ companies are our regular recruitment partners.

Strong International collaborations of SRM CoM help our students pursue Foreign Internships, Semester abroad programs, Research and secure International placements. These International exposures attune our students gain global outlook to astutely face the challenging dynamics in the complex business environment.

Courses Offered:
BBA:
Annual Fees:INR 1,05,000
Duration:3 Years
BBA is a three-year program in business administration. It is a much-sought after program that provides a holistic learning experience. It provides knowledge and experiential learning to carve out managers, entrepreneurs and business leaders. Around the year learning experience through workshops, co- curricular and extra-curricular activities makes the program very intensive. The students gain knowledge about the functioning of various domains of business like HR, Finance, Marketing and Systems and learn to apply those concepts to provide the appropriate solutions for the challenges faced by businesses.

BBA(Honours):
Annual Fees:INR 1,30,000
Duration:3 Years
BBA (Honours)
BBA (Honours) is a three-year program for those aspiring for an intensive career in management. The programs provide academic and industrial exposure, making them industry-ready. In a nutshell, BBA Honours resonates with an academic rigour and various industrial practices. The curriculum of the course is designed to impart industry-specific knowledge as well as academic know-how to the students. It also allows the candidates to excel in one specialized area enabling them to manage, start and grow new or existing business. It offers specializations in marketing, finance, human resources and operations management. One month internship in the field of their interest adds to their domain knowledge and enhances the employability of these students.

BBA Digital Marketing:
Annual Fees:105,000
Duration:3 Years
BBA in Digital Marketing is a three-year program is designed to create technology driven managers, leaders and entrepreneurs to handle the contemporary and dynamic changes of businesses. This program provides an opportunity to learn subjects related with business administration with industrial exposure specifically in the field of digital marketing.


Datascience:
Department:Department of Data Science And Business Systems

About The Department:
The department of Data Science and Business Systems (DSBS) started in 2021 with the pivotal objective of evolving students to acquire information and knowledge by acquainting technical expertise and skills, thus transforming them into entrepreneurs and product developers pertaining to the field of Data Science and Business analytics. Leveraging the ever-growing business data, the department ensures that the students acquire sound fundamentals in theory and project based learning experience in various data science related tools and technologies. Augmenting to this the department is strongly committed to impart sound domain knowledge in mathematics, business system and engineering sciences.

Every business is driven by data in today’s evolving technological world. The department ensures the students have strong fundamentals in theory, project experience in various data science related tools and technologies, and domain knowledge in mathematics, business system and engineering science.

Vision:
The Department of Data Science and Business Systems (DSBS) motivates prepares the next generation of practitioners and researchers with equal appreciation for a data-centric world and human values, with the capability to securely store and distribute the data, innovate tools and techniques for efficient data visualization for supporting business ecosystems.

Mission:
To Impart technical knowledge as per industry requirements in data analysis and information visualization.

To provide a platform to adapt and work with innovative tools and techniques related to the business decision making process.

To provide knowledge in computing techniques including Block chain, Data Science, Gaming and provide innovative solution for socio-economic problems.

To impart knowledge of Business Principles, Service Orientation, Ethics and Life Values.

Undergraduate programs offered:

B.Tech – Computer Science and Business Systems
Duration : 4 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 3,50,000

B.Tech – Computer Science And Engineering with Specialization in Big Data Analytics
Duration : 4 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 3,50,000

B.Tech – Computer Science And Engineering with Specialization in Blockchain Technology
Duration : 4 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 3,50,000

B.Tech – Computer Science And Engineering with Specialization in Gaming Technology
Duration : 4 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 3,50,000

Integrated programs offered:
M.Tech – Big Data Analytics (Great Learning)
Duration : 2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,25,000

M.Tech – Data Engineering (Great Learning)
Duration : 2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,25,000

M.Tech – Data Science
Duration : 2 Year

M.Tech – Data Science (Great Learning)
Duration : 2 Year | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,25,000

Post Graduate courses offered:
M.Tech – Big Data Analytics (Great Learning)
Duration : 2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,25,000

M.Tech – Data Engineering (Great Learning)
Duration : 2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,25,000

M.Tech – Data Science
Duration : 2 Year

M.Tech – Data Science (Great Learning)
Duration : 2 Year | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,25,000


Mohammed Fawaz:

College:Department of Biomedical Engineering

About The Department:

SRMIST is one of the few institutions in India that offers a B.Tech., M. Tech., and PhD programme in Biomedical Engineering that has been in existence for more than 15 years. Biomedical engineering is a consortium of biologists and engineers collaborating to develop medical devices, healthcare technologies, and services that benefit humanity. Biomedical engineering at SRM, was established in 2004 with an active clinical partnership with SRM Medical College and Research Institute. The department, since its inception, has actively participated in diversified research and teaching and has grown to become one of the best institutions in the country for the program. The department is well equipped with state-of-the-art research laboratories in the areas of Bioimaging, Biomaterials, Biomechanics, Bio signal and Medical Image processing. Students are motivated for active industrial collaboration through the industry associated “Centre for Biomedical Research and Healthcare Innovation (CBRHI)”. Our students have taken a few courses or completed projects at any one of our partner institutions abroad (Harvard, NTU, etc.), under the Semester Abroad Program (SAP). Connecting past to present, our students are placed in Top MNCs, Biomedical Industries, Government and Private Hospitals, IT Industries, and Research laboratories.

Vision:

Implement Science and Engineering principles in the broad area of Medical Instrumentation
Improve Healthcare delivery to humans in association with physicians and surgeons
Translate Biomedical Engineering research into applications that will advance and improve Healthcare.

Mission:

Built on a strong foundation of Basic Science and Engineering, the mission is to educate students in diverse fields of Biomedical Engineering

Work towards state-of-the-art Biomedical Engineering research and development through an interdisciplinary curriculum.

Apply knowledge about design in the development of enabling technologies for the improvement of human health.

Promote Biomedical Engineering research with ethics in the development of novel and innovative technologies.

Achieve academic excellence and stay research driven to match national and international standards.


Programs Offered:

B.Tech – Biomedical Engineering
Duration:4 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 2,50,000

M.Tech – Biomedical Engineering

Duration:2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,60,000


Department of Fashion Designing

About The Department:

Fashion Designing department has well equipped lab facilities. Pattern Making & Garment Construction lab, Illustration lab, Computer Aided Designing lab and Draping lab are all updated labs of the department. Pattern making lab is equipped with advanced power machines and over lock machines along with customized pattern table and sitting stools. The draping lab is furnished with body forms, female mannequins, male mannequins and kids mannequins. The illustration lab has customized table and chair for the students to make comfortable sketching. The computer aided designing lab has advanced designing software for the students to make computerized sketches. The department has been continuously organizing numerous guest lectures and seminars for the benefit of the students. Most of the guest speakers are from the Designing Industry. They are designers, stylist, and entrepreneurs. And also the department invites guest speakers from retailing industry and professors from various college. Recently the department organized a national level guest lecture. The guest speaker was Karun Raman, fashion choreographer, fashion blogger who is a familiar face and celebrity in the media and modeling industry. The department organized another national level guest lecture. The guest speaker for the event was Dr. C. Prakash, Director, IIHT, West Bengal. The department has organized few notable workshops in the past pertaining to Digital Designing, Doll Dress Making, Fashion Illustration, Metal Craft Work, Blazer Sewing and Finishing. 

Vision/Mission:

To provide rigorous standards for design knowledge, illustration skills, industrial and professional behaviour.

To contribute to a designer society through teaching (with classrooms, labs, fashion studios, designing through software and service.

To value a collaborative, collegial and cooperative teaching and learning community composed of diverse students.

Programs Offered:
UnderGraduate:

B.Sc. Fashion Designing
Duration : 3 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 65,000

Faheem Zubair

Department of Biotechnology – Science and Humanities

About The Department:
The Department of Biotechnology, CSH, SRMIST, was established in the year 2003, with the objective of creating a research-oriented division with inter- disciplinary ideas and has emerged as a hub for state-of-the-art research in the field of Biotechnology. It is committed to imparting a holistic education for the development of students to excel in higher education and research. The Department has a strong commitment to excellence in undergraduate and postgraduate education and offers B.Sc. M.Sc. and PhD programs in Biotechnology. It also offers a flexible curriculum that puts an emphasis on both theoretical and hands-on experience for the students. The Department consists of nine research supervisors who are carrying out cutting edge research in various fields of Biotechnology like stem cell biology, molecular immunology, microbiology, neurogenetics, animal biotechnology, and plant biotechnology. It takes pride in sending-  students for the semester abroad program (SAP) to reputed universities worldwide and  encourages students to perform research related activities from the undergraduate level. The Department organizes workshops and FDPs regularly to keep abreast with the latest advancements in Biotechnology and is constantly striving for excellence in teaching and research.

Vision:
Creating the most conducive environment for imparting quality education in Biotechnology.
Contributing effectively to produce globally competent quality professionals in the field of life science.

Mission:
Impart students with the essential knowledge and skills required for a successful career in life sciences.
Instil confidence in students to take up new challenges by grooming them appropriately.
Inculcate a sense of commitment to professional ethics, and moral values with an emphasis on team work and leadership qualities.

Programs Offered:

Undergraduate:
The undergraduate program iparts students with mastery in the field of Biotechnology.

Courses Offered-
B.sc. Biotechnology- 
Duration: 3 years | Annual Fees: Rs85,000
BS in biotechnology- 
Duration: 4 years | Annual Fees: Rs95,000

Postgraduate:
The department's ranges of postgraduate programs include core courses as well as elective, independent study.

Courses Offered-
M.Sc. Biotechnology- 
Duration: 2 years | Annual Fees: Rs1,00,000


Department of Computer Applications

About The Department:
The Department of Computer Applications at SRM Institute of Science and Technology has always been on the top as the paradigm of quality with the most modern curriculum and syllabus. Ever since its inception in 2005, the department has attained unprecedented heights and stands on par excellence among its counterparts in Tamil Nadu and India. The Department has proven its academic prowess and success with an extensive range of courses offered both at the Undergraduate and Postgraduate levels. The Department offers BCA, BCA Data Science at the UG level, and MCA, M.Sc Applied Data Science at the PG level.
Consistently ranked among the top Computer Applications programs in India, the Computer Applications Department at SRM offers a flexible curriculum designed to allow students to explore their own interests in increasing depth.  The curriculum is revamped to suit the industry needs with an emphasis on theory and application that demarcates SRM Computer Applications from most colleges.
Being one of the largest departments in the College of Science and Humanities, populated with an eclectic mix of 700+ students from different parts of the country, and 15+ accomplished professors, immense strides are made at every level to give an outstanding student experience.
Our close ties to industry, coupled with our commitment to research and education, ensure that students get a rigorous, relevant, and broad education. The most in-demand data science programme – M.Sc Applied Data Science and BCA Data Science in collaboration with industry partners grabbed the spotlight in the department.
Our world-class laboratory with the judicious integration of technologies in classrooms enables the students to be in close proximity to the latest and coolest technologies. The department also enlivens our curriculum, provides many research and summer job opportunities for our students, and makes this a very exciting place to study Computer Applications.
To quench the thirst for knowledge in Coding, the Department has initiated a Programmers Club- “LiveWires_” for the aspiring developers to plunge into software engineering activities. Virtual Labs, E-Lab, E-Skill, and E-Verify for the students to practice on Laboratory Courses with umpteen number of questions which changes their mobile devices as Learning Devices. Our department maintains excellent Placement and Internship Records.

Programs Offered:

Undergraduate:
The undergraduate program imparts students with mastery in the filed of computer science.

Courses Offered-
B.C.A Computer Applications-
Duration: 3 years | Annual Fees: Rs85,000
B.C.A Data Science- 
Duration: 3 years | Annual Fees: Rs95,000

Postgraduate:
the department's ranges if postgraduate programs include core courses as well as elective, independent study.

Courses Offered-
M.C.A. Computer Applications-
Duration: 2 years | Annual Fees: Rs1,00,000
M.Sc. Applied Data Science- 
Duration: 2 years | Annual Fees: Rs1,00,000

pradeep kumar:

college name: Srm college of agriculture and science.


Department: Department of Civil Engineering

The Department of Civil Engineering at Kattankulathur is one of the pioneer departments of the Institute, established in 1985. 
The department has excelled in the areas of Academics, Research, Cultural and sports, developing a reputation up to global standards.


Vision:
Our department’s vision is to become a frontier in various fields of Civil Engineering education and research to meet national and global challenges in accordance with societal needs. 


Mission:

##And our missions are: to move up through international alliances and collaborative initiatives in civil engineering to achieve global excellence; To accomplish a process to advance knowledge 
in a rigorous research environment related to civil engineering and allied disciplines; To attract and build people in a rewarding and inspiring environment by fostering freedom, empowerment, 
creativity, and innovation.

##The department possesses eminent, experienced, and dedicated teaching faculty with teaching and research excellence who produce quality publications arising out of research and consultancy 
activity in their field of interest.

##The department also possesses excellent infrastructure facilities on par with international standards, enabling us to produce highly calibre Civil Engineers.


Undergraduate programs offered:

B.Tech – Civil Engineering
Duration : 4 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 2,50,000
Professor & Head of Department: Dr. P.T. Ravichandran

B.Tech – Civil Engineering with Computer Applications
Duration : 4 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 2,50,000
Professor & Head of Department: Dr. P.T. Ravichandran

Post Graduate courses offered:

M.Tech – Construction Engineering & Management
Duration : 2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,60,000
Professor & Head of Department: Dr. P.T. Ravichandran

M.Tech – Environmental Engineering
Duration : 2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,60,000
Professor & Head of Department: Dr. P.T. Ravichandran

M.Tech – Geotechnical Engineering
Duration: 2 Years 
Professor & Head of Department: Dr. P.T. Ravichandran

M.Tech – Remote Sensing & Geographics Information System
Duration: 2 Years
Professor & Head of Department: Dr. P.T. Ravichandran

M.Tech – Structural Engineering
Duration : 2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,60,000
Professor & Head of Department: Dr. P.T. Ravichandran

college name: Srm college of agriculture and science.

Department: Department of Visual Communication.

The Department of Visual communication is one of the very few private institutes in the country offering full-fledged 
Post – Graduate and Graduate programs with advanced infrastructure, a comprehensive curriculum, skilled and experienced
Faculty, placement process, International exchange programs, lively co-curricular activities like theatre, dance, music,
cinema and painting with an ambiance that encourages students to scale new heights in their areas of interest with a firm
root in social sensitivity. It has emerged as one of the leading Communication and media institutes in the country with an
international reputation. The program is designed to provide a holistic design education that incorporates technology, 
aesthetics, and integrated use of various media. The course aims at giving an opportunity to the budded youths to get 
trained as professionals in the media world.

Courses in Visual Communication examine the nature, use, and role of messages among individuals, small groups, organizations,
and society in whatever form they assume – oral, written, visual, mediated, and technological communication. The course ensures
that students are trained in both traditional and modern technology as practice and in theory as well.


Vision:

To develop a knowledge center to impart innovative hands-on training in Visual Media, emphasizing alternative perspectives and 
aesthetic presentation of realities using international media strategies.


Mission:

To provide a broad spectrum of visual media to enable students to make meaningful career choices.

To train students towards a better understanding of media by sharpening their creativity.

To facilitate the use of alternative media to bring positive changes in society.

To bring down the gap between the academia and media industry.


Undergraduate programs offered:


B.Sc. Visual Communication
Duration : 3 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,05,000
Assistant Professor & Head of the Department: Dr. Rajesh. R


Postgraduate programs offered:


M.Sc. Visual Communication
Duration : 2 Years | Annual Fees : ₹ 1,00,000
Assistant Professor & Head of the Department: Dr. Rajesh. R


Ph.D programs offered: 


Ph.D. Visual Communication

HADIQ SHEHEER

Department of Aerospace Engineering

About The Department

The Department of Aerospace Engineering is the youngest and most exciting department in the School of Mechanical Engineering, established in the year 2007. It offers a four -year degree in B.Tech Program. The department also offers M.Tech. (Research) and doctoral programs in various areas of aerospace engineering. The department holds a decent number of full-time doctoral research scholars. The faculties and students of our department have published a good number of research publications, and patents and conducted various activities like FDPs, webinars, and guest lectures. The department also organizes World Space Week every year. Highly qualified and dedicated faculties on board to groom the young minds with a passion for Aerospace Engineering. The department has always attracted the brightest students who have great passion for creativity and innovation. It has well-equipped laboratories. Our Aerospace hangar houses Cessna, Eurocopter, Kiran aircraft, Airbus A300 simulator, different types of engines, and landing gear components. Aerodynamics Lab comprises of subsonic & supersonic wind tunnel, sophisticated high-speed jet facility, smoke tunnel, boundary layer tunnel, etc; Aircraft Structures lab; Aero Fluid Mechanics Lab; Computational Lab & Advanced Computational Lab; Material Testing lab; Avionics lab and Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Memorial Propulsion Laboratory, exclusively for studies on various propellants.

Established:-2007
Faculty & Staff:-31
Students:-353
Publications:-239
Funded Projects:-3
Patent(Published):-7
Ph.D (Awarded):-2


Vision

Inspire and nurture the next generation of Aerospace engineers and scientists; inculcate knowledge in ethics and humanity.

Mission

To educate students in the fundamental disciplines of Aerospace Engineering such as Aerodynamics, Aerospace structures and materials, Aerospace propulsion, flight mechanics, Space mechanics, Avionics.

To impart knowledge, methodology, tools of design and the synthesis of fundamental aerospace disciplines necessary for the students to carry out the design of an aerospace vehicle or system.

To establish Centre of Excellence for research in the field of Aerodynamics, and Aerospace structures and materials, Aerospace propulsion.

To provide world class training and skills to every Aerospace students to add value and shine in a Global market.

Programs Offered

UNDERGRADUATE
B.Tech – Aerospace Engineering
Duration : 4 Years
Annual Fees : ₹ 3,75,000

Mode Of Delivery
Regular

Program Type
Full Time

REASEARCH
Ph.D
Ph.D in Aerospace Engineering (Full Time)
Duration : 3-5 years
Annual Fees : ₹ 30,000

Mode Of Delivery
Regular

Program Type
Full Time


Placement

The Department of Aerospace Engineering gives utmost importance to students placements in reputed industries and corporate. We have a dynamic placement team that coordinates with the centralized career center to facilitate the placement process. Our department has shown a drastic improvement in placements over the past few years. We also aim to achieve complete placement for all the enrolled students in the subsequent years.

The students of Aerospace Engineering have been finding coveted positions in reputed corporate and business houses that visit the campus every year. The salary packages are comparably high, on par with international standards. The excellent infrastructure of the department, guidance by experienced faculty members, and hands-on training sessions for industry-driven skills foster the students in all aspects of their placements.

Apart from campus placements, our students receive job offers from defense sectors viz Indian Air Force, Indian Navy, Aeronautical Development Establishment (ADE), Centre for Military Airworthiness and Certification (CEMILAC), Gas Turbine Research Establishment (GTRE), and other government space/aviation establishments like Indian Space Research Organization (ISRO), Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL), National Aerospace Laboratories (NAL), etc. Our alumni are working in reputed organizations like Airbus, Rolls-Royce, European Space Agency (ESA), etc. With the explosive growth in civil aviation, satellite communications, and space exploration, there will be a constant demand for graduate aerospace engineers.


Dream offers:-22     
Job Placements:-73%
Highest Package Offered:-38.5LPA
Companies Visited:-110+
Alumni across the Globe:-1100+


Faculty

Teaching environment and quality are central to SRMIST’s capability profile. Our Professors are the reason for our continued ability to foster vibrant and value adding learning experiences for our students. The success of our students’ in terms of their learning and overall development enabled by our faculty members is an area of focus for Leadership at SRMIST. Many opportunities are provided to our faculty members to conduct research and engage with the industry in consultancy and other projects. This platform brings our faculty members an opportunity to expand their knowledge contribution as well as bring those rich experiential inputs to the classrooms and labs therefore benefiting our students.

Faculty Members
Dr. Ganapathy Subramanian L R
Professor & HOD

Dr. Selvakumaran T
Associate Professor
Subject Aerodynamics, Solid mechanics, Aircraft Structures and Solid propellant combustion

Dr. Senthilkumar S
Associate Professor
Subject Computational Fluid Dynamics, Aerodynamics, Heat Transfer

Dr. Sivakumar S
Associate Professor
Vibrations and Elements of Aero elasticity, Aircraft Structures, Finite Element Method, Helicopter Maintenance, Aircraft Systems and Instruments etc.

Dr. Allwyn K
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering

Dr. Aravindh Kumar S M
Research Assistant Professor
Gas Dynamics, Aerodynamics

Dr. Gurusideswar S
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering - Composite Structures

Dr. Kannan B T
Research Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering - Aerodynamics

Dr. Kuchimanchi K Bhardwaj
Assistant Professor
Aerodynamics

Dr. Malaikannan G
Research Assistant Professor
Reentry Aerodynamics, Hypersonic Aerothermodynamics, Rarefied Gas Dynamics

Dr. Mohamed Arif R
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering

Dr. Saravanakumar K
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering – Materials & Structures

Dr. Saravanan G
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering

Dr. Vignesh Kumar M
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering

Mr. Ravichandrakumar K B
Assistant Professor
CFD application on Aerodynamics

Mr. Vinayak Malhotra
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering

Mr. Bharat N
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering

Mr. Iynthezhuthon K
Assistant Professor

Mr. Mahendra Perumal G
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering

Mr. Rajkumar S
Assistant Professor
Aerospace Engineering


Infrastructure

The Department of Aerospace Engineering has laboratories catering to students, scholars and faculty members for their academic and research activities. Modern computing facilities are also available for students towards performing Computer Aided Design and Computational Analysis (Structural Analysis / Fluid Dynamics / Combustion).

Advanced Computing Lab
Aero Fluid Dynamics Laboratory
Subsonic Aerodynamics Laboratory
Supersonic Aerodynamics Laboratory
Aerospace Structures Laboratory
Computational Laboratory
Aerospace Propulsion Laboratory
Material Testing Laboratory
Avionics Laboratory


Contact Us
Department Of Aerospace Engineering
Main Campus, SRM Institute of Science and Technology,
(Opp. to Potheri Railway Station)
Kattankulathur, Chengalpattu District, Tamil Nadu – 603203

044 27417824/ 044 27417864
hod.aero.ktr@srmist.edu.in




L.L.M. International Trade Law

Campus:-Kattankulathur (KTR)
Sanctioned Intake:-25
Annual Fees:-INR 85,000
Duration:-1 Year

Programme Educational Objective
1)To provide the students an-depth dynamic and applied knowledge of the regulatory framework of the multilateral trading system, covering both the institutional and substantive law of the WTO.

2)To develop various skills among the students that would enable them to critically examine the operation of international trade law in practical contexts.

3)To motivate the students to explore and understand the complex issues emerging in the area of international trade.

4)To prepare the students who will achieve peer- recognition effectively as individuals in Bar or in Judiciary to make decision.

Ganesh Ram:

# Science And Humanities

"College of Science and Humanities (CSH) offers an education model that emphasizes Critical Thinking, Collaboration, and Problem-Solving. This in turn provides you with the knowledge and skills to achieve your goals and earn a position of leadership within your chosen profession."


>Welcome Message: The Department of Computer Applications is dedicated for ensuring great careers for students joined for pursuing Undergraduate or Postgraduate. The excellent infrastructure, teaching faculty of the best kind of the Department ensuring quality education such as interaction among students, parents, and staff, along with a Training and Placement Cell ensures a bright future to its students. We strongly encourage innovation in research, in teaching, and in service to the profession, the local community, and industry. Our faculty and students are constantly striving to excel and to advance the state of the art in Computer Applications.

>About The Department: The Department of Computer Applications at SRM Institute of Science and Technology has always been on the top as the paradigm of quality with the most modern curriculum and syllabus. Ever since its inception in 2005, the department has attained unprecedented heights and stands on par excellence among its counterparts in Tamil Nadu and India. The Department has proven its academic prowess and success with an extensive range of courses offered both at the Undergraduate and Postgraduate levels. The Department offers BCA, BCA Data Science at the UG level, and MCA, M.Sc Applied Data Science at the PG level.

>Specialization: To quench the thirst for knowledge in Coding, the Department has initiated a Programmers Club- “LiveWires_” for the aspiring developers to plunge into software engineering activities. Virtual Labs, E-Lab, E-Skill, and E-Verify for the students to practice on Laboratory Courses with umpteen number of questions which changes their mobile devices as Learning Devices. Our department maintains excellent Placement and Internship Records.

--Science and Humanities Dean :Dr. A. Duraisamy
--Associate Professor and Head :Dr. Albert Antony Raj S


>College name:Srm University KTR
>Science And Humanities
>Post Graduate:MBA 
>Deparment:Arfiticial Intelligence and Data Science
>Duration: 2Years
>Annual Fees: 3,85,000



# SCHOOL OF LAW

>> Our Programs: Programs offered includes PG as per the guidelines of regulatory bodies. Strong curriculum and pedagogy have been framed keeping in view the contemporary standard and expectations.  Placement and internship are adequately facilitated.


# School of Law, SRMIST, being a citadel of Legal education is known for its state of art green campus emphasizes on quality education of global standards through unique curriculum and pedagogy duly delivered by highly qualified, experienced and committed faculty members along with a rich information centre with all kind of resources. Special attention is given towards technical skills, information technology and infrastructure.


>> career and P: The Career Center in SRM Institute of Science and Technology plays a vital role in making SRM a favored destination for many national and international organizations to recruit fresh talent nurtured at the Institute. Continuous institute-industry interaction, pre-joining learning initiatives, participating in industrial exhibitions, fairs, seminars to promote useful interaction with the industries and alumni activities are some of the initiatives of Placement Office. The excellent infrastructure of the Career Center facilitates activities like preplacement talks, written tests, group discussions, and interviews as per the requirements of the recruiting organizations.

--School of Law Dean :Prof (Dr.) C. A. Gurudath


>College Name: Srm University KTR
>School Of Law
>Post Graduate:LLM
>Department:Criminal Law and Criminal Justice
>Duration: 1Years
>Annual Fees: 85,000